
CLOCKWORK DRAKE
Actions
Huge, Unaligned
Multiattack. The drake makes makes two attacks: one
with crushing stomp and one with bladed tail.
Armor Class 18
Hit Points 225 (18d12 + 108)
Bladed Tail. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 15
Speed 40 ft., fly 80 ft.
ft., one target. Hit: 16 (2d8 + 7) slashing damage.
Crushing Stomp. Melee Weapon Attack: + 12 to hit,
reach 5 ft. one medium or smaller target. Hit 13 (1d12
STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA
+ 7) bludgeoning damage.
25
(+7)
8 (-1)
23 (+6)
12 (+1)
15 (+2)
8 (-1)
Arcane Nullifcation. The Clockwork Drake ends one spell
effect within 30 feet of it. If the spell is 6th level or
Saving Throws Dex +4, Con + 11, Wis +7, Cha +4
higher, the Clockwork Drake must make an Arcana
Skills Arcana +6, Athletics + 12, Perception +7
check equal to 10 + the level of the spell to end it.
Damage Resistances Fire, Lightning; Bludgeoning,
Flaming Tar Breath (Recharge 5-6). The drake unleashes
Piercing, and Slashing from Nonmagical Attacks that
a blast of flaming tar in 30 foot cone. Each creature in
aren't Adamantine
the area must make a DC 19 dexterity saving throw
Damage Immunities Poison, Psychic
throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 13d6 fire
Condition Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened,
damage and becomes coved in a thick layer of flaming
Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned
tar. On a successful save, creatures take half as much
Senses Blindsight 60 feet, Darkvision 1250 ft., Passive
damage and are not covered in tar. Creatures covered in
Perception 22
tar have their movement speed halved and take 3d6
Languages Understands the languages of its creator but
fire damage at the start of their turn. A creature can
can't speak
spend an action clearing the flaming tar from itself or
Challenge 16 (15,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus: +5
another creature within 5 feet.
Adamantine Weapons. The Clockwork Drake's weapon
Reactions
attacks are adamantine.
Windy Flapping. While flying, the drake can add 5 to its
Crushing Descent. If the Clockwork Drake flies more
AC against a ranged weapon attack that would hit it.
than 20 feet downward before making a crushing
Legendary Actions
stomp attack, on hit the target takes an additional 6
(1d12) damage and must make a DC 19 Strength
The Clockwork Drake can take 3 legendary actions,
saving throw, or it is knocked prone and grappled by
choosing from the options below. Only one legendary
the Clockwork Drake (escape DC 19). Until the grapple
action option can be used at a time and only at the end
ends, the target is restrained and has disadvantage on
of another creature's turn. The Clockwork Drake regains
Strength checks and Strength saving throws, and the
spent legendary actions at the start of its turn.
roper can't use the same tendril on another target.
Arc. All creatures within 60 feet of the Clockwork Drake
Immutable Form. The Clockwork Drake is immune to
take 1d4 lightning damage. Once the Clockwork Drake
any spell or effect that would alter its form.
uses Arc, it cannot use it again until the start of its next
Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Clockwork Drake fails a
turn.
saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Tail Attack. The drake makes a Bladed Tail attack.
Lightning Powered. If the Clockwork Drake takes more
Wind Up. The drake conserves energy to unleash it on a
than 20 lightning damage from any ability, it regains 1
burst. It gains 10 temporary hit points, and on it's next
spent legendary action.
turn it can take the Dash action as a bonus action.
Bloodied
Wing Attack. (Costs 2 Actions). The drake beats its
wings. Each creature within 10 feet of the drake must
Overcharged: If the Clockware Drake is bloodied
succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or take 14
(reduced to less than half of its hit points), it starts to
(2d6 + 7) bludgeoning damage and be knocked prone.
crackle with arcs of lightning. It's Lighting Breath
The drake can then fly up to half its flying speed.
automatically recharges at the start of its next turn, and
any creature that hits it with a melee attack until the
start of its next turn (including the attack the bloodied
it) takes 6 (1d12) lightning damage.