
Artificers
G
rtificers unlock the power in technology. For
thousands of years, civilisation is dominated by
those who can invent new items to further the
Artifice Freelancer
goals of their society. But in a world with dragons
Medium humanoid (any race), any alignment
and magic, there is less of a pressing need for
using what the earth naturally provides. There is
less need for invention. Or is there? A sect of
Armor Class 20 (+1 black dragon scale mail, +1 shield
of missile attraction)
creators, weavers, designers, tinkerers, and artists says no, that
Hit Points 78 (12d8 + 24)
shall not do. There is need for the inventions within the minds
Speed 30 ft.
of sentient beings. Not all problems can be solved with magic.
Artificer Workshops
STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA
14 (+2)
16 (+3)
15 (+2)
16 (+3)
12 (+1)
13 (+1)
Far from an ordinary workshop, an artificer workshop is a
communal workspace for anyone who studies under the mantle
Damage Resistances acid; all damage from ranged
of artifice. Sharing the space with so many other artificers
weapon attacks
creates an open, collaborative working environment
Skills Smith's Tools +5, Tinker's Tools +5
encouraging of anyone to succeed. It's a space where people
Senses passive Perception 11
can work if they prefer the hustle and bustle of people around
Languages any three languages
them, to bounce ideas off of, or just to socialise. And,
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
occasionally, someone will come into an artificer workshop in
need of someone who can solve for them a particular problem.
Bandolier. The freelancer carries 10 pieces of
Once freelancer artificers have been hired on the job, there is
ammunition for its hunting rifle and 3 of each type of
nothing that will stop them. Except for lack of funds.
grenade it can use. It can replenish its hunting rifle
ammunition after completing a short rest using its
Interesting Problems
smith's tools.
Create a Machine of War
Shield of Missile Attraction. Whenever a ranged
weapon attack is made against a target within 10 feet
Artificers from the workshop have been hired to devise a great
of the freelancer, the freelancer becomes the target
machine to lay siege on their patron's enemies. This kind of
instead.
patron is usually a king or queen, a warlord, or a noble. Perhaps
even a dragon in disguise.
Tinker's Shield. The freelancer's shield is held by a
mechanical frame and arm attached to its back. The
Armorer
freelancer does not require a free hand to benefit from
Artillerist
its shield.
Battle Smith
Actions
Bolster Productivity
Multiattack. The freelancer makes two ranged weapon
Artificers from the workshop have been hired to build a device
attacks and can use one of its grenades.
that will increase the productive yield of an organisation. This
might be for farmers that work the land of a noble, for miners
Hunting Rifle. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range
employed by a dwarven king, or even for something more
80/240 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) piercing
abstract like increasing the capability of thieves for the thieves'
damage. The freelancer must spend an action to reload
guild.
this weapon after making 5 attacks.
Fragmentation Grenade. The freelancer throws the
Alchemist
grenade at a point it can see within 60 feet of it. Each
Armorer
creature within 20 feet of that point must make a DC
15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 17 (5d6) piercing
Unlock Forgotten Lore
damage on a failed save, or half as much on a
Artificers from the workshop have been hired to venture out
successful one.
and uncover dark secrets that others would prefer lay hidden.
The patron for these expeditions might be someone benign, like
Smoke Grenade. The freelancer throws the grenade at
a point it can see within 60 feet of it. The grenade
a king or queen who doesn't know what they're doing, or
emits a cloud of smoke that creates a heavily-obscured
someone more sinister, like a crafty devil attempting to learn
area in a 20-foot radius. A moderate wind (10 mph)
the true name of a rival.
disperses the smoke in 4 rounds, and a strong wind (20
Alchemist
mph) disperses it in 1 round.
Armorer
5