
ARCANAMITE
Beautiful to look at, horrific to come across, arcanamites
ARCANAMITE
scuttle through the deep places of the world, creating massive
Small monstrosity, unaligned
hive networks that stretch for miles.
Drawn to magical Energy, they nest closely to area rich in
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
arcane power, draining the region dry. Magic bounces
Hit Points 27 (5d6 + 10)
harmlessly from arcanamites as they swarm around they
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
targets, burrowing into them with razor-sharp pincers
and
needle beaks.
STR
DEX CON INT WIS CHA
Prized Possession. Partially made of arcane-infused gem,
an Arcanamite's carapace is valuable to spellcasters and rare
7 (-2) 15 (+2) 15 (+2) 2 (-4) 12 (+1) 6 (-2)
jewelcrafters. Expeditions to Arcanamite hives, while
dangerous, can provide a fortuitous haul. Spellcasters will
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +4
sometimes attempt to capture an arcanamite alive, using it as
Damage Vulnerabilities bludgeoning
a defender or to harry other arcane users.
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
Swarm Fighters. Arcanamites sense arcane energy,
Languages -
moving to the most potent source first. They use needle-like
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
barbs to latch onto their target, draining arcane energy.
Arcanamites are rarely alone, living and fighting in large
Magic Scent. The arcanamite can pinpoint, by scent,
swarms. Once they sense magic energy, arcanamites rush
the location of a creature that can cast spells within
toward their target, ignoring the attacks and magic that
60 feet of it.
bounce off their resistant shell.
Reflective Carapace. Any time the arcanamite is
Dangerous Friends. Arcanamites that are kept by lords
targeted by a magic missile spell, a line spell, or a
and spellcasters are not trustworthy pets. Unless an adequate
spell that requires a ranged attack roll, roll a d6. On a
amount of arcane energy is given, arcanamites will attempt to
1 to 5, the arcanamite is unaffected. On a 6, the
kill their captors, draining them of their magic or return to
arcanamite is unaffected, and the effect is reflected
their hive.
back at the caster as though it originated from the
Addictive Qualities. The sensation left by arcanamite
arcanamite, turning the caster into the target.
draining is both painful but highly stimulating. Occasionally,
spellcasters who experience this effect grow dependent of it.
Actions
Arcanamites will remain latched on a target for years,
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5ft., one
draining arcane energy from their host while the victim is lost
target. Hit 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage, and the
in the experience.
arcanamite can attach itself to the target. The
arcanamite can be removed if a creature takes an
action and succeeds on a DC 15 Strength check
against it. The arcanamite detaches if it takes fire
damage. Until the arcanamite detaches, it can't bite
another target.
Leech Magic. If the arcanamite is attached to a
creature with spell slots, roll a d4. The target loses a
spell slot of that level, or the next highest level if it
has no spell slots of that level. If the arcanamite has
leeched a number of spell slots with a combined
level of 8 or more, it detaches from the creature.