
Brute of the Pack. Born physically larger and stronger
KOBOLDS
that others in the tribe, a kobold bully fights its way through
Kobold society is influenced by their lawful evil alignment.
the social hierarchy. A kobold bully works as muscle for the
They will plan and dig mines industriously, while laying cruel
tribe, serving as guards and vanguards in battle. What a
traps for interlopers. If they must confront an enemy, they will
kobold bully lacks in cunning, it makes up for in brutal
mass their troops for an ambush. Among the monstrous
strength, tending to stab first and ask questions second.
humanoids, they are known for cunning plans; unlike many,
Kobold bullies incite rage among their tribes, acting upon
they also share those plans among the tribe. General plans
jealously towards those who seem better off than them.
and goals are common knowledge, and detailed plans are
shared with all who ask, to allow them to work fruitfully for
KOBOLD COMMANDER
the good of the tribe. Kobolds have a natural hatred of other
Having survived a few skirmishes the older and experienced
non-draconic creatures because of mistreatment of their race.
kobold soldiers make up the ranks of kobold commanders.
Specialized Laborers. Though most kobolds are miners,
Tasked with the safety of the tribe these ruthless leaders
digging for the lost god Kurtulmak, a special few are chosen
frequently send patrols out to monitor the surroundings.
at birth for specific jobs, an even smaller group are marked at
Never Alone. Due to the combat hardened and wary
birth for greatness. Selected by the All-Watcher of the tribe
nature of kobold commanders, they are never far away from
these Kobolds fill roles unique to the tribe.
soldiers. They often carry horns made of bone to warn and
Tribal Society. Consisting of 10 to 15 families, tribes of
call for the aid of nearby kobolds.
kobolds can survive anywhere but tend to live in mines or
deep forests where there is little light. The tribe's land covers
KOBOLD HERO
about 10 square miles, when the tribe grows too large to
support itself on its land, the tribe will split itself in two and
Bearing a mark of uncommon from the rest of its tribe, a
half will migrate to other lands.
kobold hero acts with the knowledge of its eventual success.
Scaled Pride. Most kobolds worship dragons, however
Trained beyond any other; equipped with the finest gear and
dragons tend to see kobolds as pests and either ignore them
fervent in the belief of destiny, these creatures is the face of
or use them as fodder or slaves. Mountains with dragon lairs
kobold tribes. Worldly knowledge and years of adventure
atop are a sure place to look for kobolds.
show upon their scaled face. A kobold hero can rally tribes
Aged Wisdom. Kobolds are gerontocratic, the oldest is the
together and bring upon the world a deadly and zealous foe.
wisest. Called the All-Watcher be it male or female rules
When a kobold hero emerges, the world is destined to
His/hers tribe without question. Kobolds can live to be easily
change.
1,000 years old but most die long before that age.
Marked for Destiny. When a kobold is born, they are
Honor One's Kin. Honoring the dead is very important to
marked. This marking varies from hero to hero, often
kobolds and how varies from region to region. Some resort to
appearing as a change in their skin color or alteration of the
cannibalism to ensure power stays in the tribe, others
eyes. These markings are recognized in kobold tribes as
mummify and entomb the dead in mazes of tunnels. Dark
blessings from the Dragon Queen Tiamat. Immediately,
forests kobolds bury the dead to return them to nature.
kobolds marked are treated as vessels of destiny; raised,
Scaled Skin. Outsiders are rarely trusted in kobold lands,
trained and pushed to fulfill the will of Tiamat.
however other races with scaled skin are considered to be
Chosen of Tiamat. Unlike other kobolds, kobold heroes
more trustworthy. Dragonkin, Snakefolk and even Bullywugs
are above any social hierarchy. Their right to rule and
can trade and even negotiate with some tribes of kobolds.
command goes unquestioned by any tribe. At this command,
Most others can gain the trust of a tribe, but gnomes are
squabbling tribes of kobold rally under their banner and go
hated and treated with extreme hostility.
forth to aid the kobold hero in its task. When kobold heroes
Understood Law. Few in number, kobolds do have some
appear, cities and towns neighboring kobold tribes tremble in
rules they must follow in everyday life. Pranks are harshly
fear of the impending armies these heroes create.
considered taboo, this is connected to the loss of the main
kobold deity Kurtulmak, the god of war and mining. Kobolds
KOBOLD SHAMAN
and gnomes have an instinctual hate of each other because of
Scents of heavy herbs, the clattering of trinkets and the subtle
a "prank" played upon Kurtulmak by the gnomish deity Garl
whispering of a cunning mind mark the arrival of a kobold
Glittergold. According to some kobold myths, Garl collapsed
shaman. Imbued with the magic of their god Tiamat, kobold
Kurtulmak's cave because of the gnome god saw that they
shamans rule the tribe, using guile and deception to keep
were likely to become the dominant race in the world. Murder
their place. Kobold shamans are frail but agile, their physical
of another member of the same tribe is forbidden, so many
stature pushing them more to avoiding combat than getting
tribes favor exile to execution. Leading an outsider to the
into it themselves.
tribe's home is a grave crime in kobold law.
Rite of the Elements. Kobold shamans must display their
connection to the dragon god Tiamat. Those chosen to
KOBOLD BULLY
become a shaman undergo a ritual of elements, being
Thick sinuous muscle defines this kobold, setting it apart
subjected to searing heat, deathly cold and noxious acid.
from its wiry counterparts. Kobold bullies stand with an air of
Those who emerge from the ritual alive are awakened to the
confidence, bones of rivals hanging from their spear. Small
arcane energies of Tiamat.
black eyes glittering with malicious deviance show the harsh
K
spirit that drives this creature.
KOBOLDS
48