
Clerics
Order Priest
Order Priest
Order priests are those devoted wholly and unconditionally to
the strictest interpretation of the law they can decipher. They
Medium humanoid (any race), any alignment (usually
exist only to protect the established structures in place.
good)
Gods of the Order Priests
Armor Class 16 (chain mail)
Hit Points 65 (10d8 + 20)
Helm, God of Protection
Speed 30 ft.
A shield is always at the side of a follower, whether they're
carrying it or someone else is.
STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA
Ilmater, God of Endurance
15 (+2)
10 (+0)
15 (+2)
13 (+1)
16 (+3)
13 (+1)
Followers can run for a thousand miles without stopping to
catch their breath.
Skills Intimidation +3, Religion +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Kelemvor, God of the Dead
Languages any two languages
Out of the corner of one's eye, one can see, only through the
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
reflection of a mirror, a skeletal apparition where the follower
would be standing.
Authoritative Strikes. The priest's weapon attacks are
magical and deal an additional 4 (1d8) psychic damage
Savras, God of Divination and Fate
(included in the attack).
Keen observers know to avoid a room that a follower refuses to
Spellcasting. The priest is a 5th-level spellcaster. Its
walk into.
spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 13, +5 to
hit with spell attacks). It has the following cleric spells
Torm, God of Courage and Self-Sacrifice
prepared.
Nearly everyone has a story of the heroism of a dead follower
they once knew.
Cantrips (at will): guidance, sacred flame, thaumaturgy
1st level (4 slots): bless, command, cure wounds,
Tyr, God of Justice
heroism, sanctuary, shield of faith
2nd level (3 slots): aid, hold person, zone of truth
Followers are capable of coming to moral and ethical
3rd level (2 slots): beacon of hope, mass healing word,
conclusions in a fraction of a second, and their decisions are
slow
almost always fair.
Voice of Authority. Immediately after the priest targets
Quick Features
an ally with a spell, the target can use its reaction to
make a weapon attack against a creature the priest can
see. If more than one ally is targeted, the priest
Spellcasting. The priest is a 5th-level spellcaster. Its
chooses which ally can take this reaction.
spellcasting ability is Wisdom. It has the following cleric
spells prepared.
Actions
Cantrips (at will): light, mending, spare the dying
Mace. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
1st level (4 slots): cure wounds, guiding bolt, sanctuary
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage plus 4
2nd level (3 slots): lesser restoration, spiritual weapon
(1d8) psychic damage.
3rd level (2 slots): mass healing word, spirit guardians
Order's Demand. Each creature of the priest's choice
within 30 feet of the priest must succeed on a DC 13
Wisdom saving throw or immediately drop an item
they are holding (priest's choice) and become charmed
by the priest until the end of the priest's next turn or
until the charmed creature takes damage. While
charmed in this way, a creature views the priest as the
ultimate determiner of what is right and wrong.
22